Ooh, say more. Say more words. What does that mean? I'm not following because I'm not smart.
Hey. Hey. What? I don't know. Are you tired? I am something. I am tired, yes, in the metaphorical
sense, in the large scale sense, also the physical sense. I'm tired. I think you haven't been sleeping
a lot. I wasn't, I wasn't sleeping a lot. I get these little bouts. I don't have to talk about
on the podcast. I talk about ad nauseam on stream and probably Twitter. But I do get these like,
these little bouts of not sleeping, where I feel like I don't need sleep. Like, I literally just feel
like, like four or five hours is fine. Six hours is like sleeping in. I go through that for like,
a couple weeks, and then I crash, sometimes, I mean, sometimes longer, sometimes a couple
months, and then I crash really hard. And I go into like, sleeping a lot, not a lot, like,
seven and a half hours is a lot for me. And I will say the last couple of nights, seven and a half
hours. So I'm doing a little better. But last night, the 4th of July, we stayed up late, fireworks,
all that stuff. So I slept in. The power was out all night right after literally right after the
fireworks show, and our neighborhood does like a little fireworks show. As we're driving home,
it starts raining, and then like this crazy thunderstorm. And like, I'm sure people were caught
out. We were the first ones to leave. We got a four year old. I'm sure people were out there
just standing on the sidewalk, getting drenched. I mean, it just started pouring and like crazy wind.
Our furniture on our porch is literally all on one side of the porch. I get got blown
across the porch. I mean, like trees down all over the place, power was out all night.
So we've had some power outages since we had solar. We've never had to run all night on
battery like that. But the air conditioning doesn't run when the solar is out. So it's just very hot.
Summer here is air conditioning. Like really, it just uses a lot of power to cleaning. Yeah.
So they left it off the solar circuit. It's like the only thing in our house that doesn't run
on battery, which our battery lasts so long. Like we use like 10% of it for eight hours overnight.
I'm like, why not just put it all in there? You know what I mean? Let's just not sweat. I don't
always turn off the AC, right? It's weird to like, yeah, like physically disconnect. They were,
yeah, they were really like not wanting to put it on this special circuit for the solar thing.
I don't know why. It's the amperages or something, something about electricity
that I don't understand. Anyway, what was I talking about? I'm tired. Oh, sleep. Yeah. So I
actually did sleep enough last night. I've been sleeping the last couple nights, two nights.
It's not the best. You said you slept late yesterday, but what does that mean for you?
Like 11 p.m. Yesterday, like went to bed late last night. Yeah.
10 decks 10 p.m. was extremely late for me. We go to bed at 8 30. Okay. 10 p.m. would be going
to bed like early for me. Yeah, I'm sure. Most most people, most normal people. That's another
thing. I just have this sense that I'm not normal. You know what I mean? Like, no, you're not. Do you
ever just feel like you don't belong in the society you live in? Like we're just so counter
everything in our society. And I get that sense whenever I try and do something with other people.
Like last night we went to my parents' house and they like, they're eating, they eat late.
We don't eat late. I just feel like this like Ferrari. You eat later than grandparents.
It's earlier than grandparents. No, earlier than grandparents. That's really crazy. I know.
That is really crazy. Everything in my life is so hyper specific and so not the way people do
things. And I feel like this like well-oiled machine that if it gets off by like a micro fraction of a
deviation, everything collapses. Like if I go to bed an hour late, my life is ruined.
Why do I feel that way? Because that's how you set it up. Did I do that intentionally? I think
semi intentionally and semi as a side effect of a bunch of other things. Well, could you please
tell me what all the other things are? And I could start fixing it because I'm going insane.
Okay, so I have this really, really large grand analysis, but I've also been trying to be better
about not like I've been trying to be better about is letting people live the way they do.
Yeah, but I'm invited. I want to live differently. Or I don't want to live differently. I want
to stop feeling this way. And I feel ways. I have frustrations and they're bubbling over.
Yeah. So I mean, I know you're asking for it, but like I think the reason that I have been
intentionally trying to be better about this is I spend like an inordinate amount of time like
thinking about kind of stupid things, really, like for any topic that somebody has kind of
thought of, I feel like I've spent 10 times as much time talking about it or thinking about it.
I feel like that too. I mean, about you. I feel like when you start talking about things,
I'm like, how have you spent so much time thinking about this thing? Because I've never thought
about this thing. I literally will just sit and stare at a wall and just think about like
stupid shit like this. And so whenever I get into these discussions, I end up sounding like
overwhelmingly persuasive, but it kind of was like a unfair setup. You know, I've just been trying to
like be a little bit more aware of that. I can still get into it, but could you give me
yeah, get into it. I mean, I don't care at this point. I feel bad for the podcast listeners,
but I need this conversation. And this is when we have these conversations. So I'm sorry.
It's we'll talk about something. Just hang on. We'll talk about tech and coffee and whatever.
We'll talk about stuff. Just give us a bit. I just need a little mental health cleansing.
The reason we're doing the podcast early, by the way, I'm going to go to jujitsu. I need to like,
I need to wrestle. I need to like exert a lot of force. I haven't been doing a lot of like physical
activity the last couple of weeks, just too busy. And when I do that, when I neglect that, it just
gets bad. So anyway, that's why I'm doing it early. So continue. Okay. So let me, let me
hear how to start. So I think what is not normal. And I want to say not normal. Because I think
there's actually a lot of people that actually are on the same track as you, just like the very
and very extremes. I wouldn't consider myself at all in like that same kind of space. But there
are a lot of people. So I've observed this interesting thing where so you have like a hyper optimized
life in a lot of ways, like you're always looking for different ways to push different
dimensions of it. So understandably, you end up with a very brittle day to day, because like,
if it's so pushed to a certain space, like you said, one thing goes off, like, it's a delicate
thing. It's like, yeah, they're driving F one car, right? Like if a tiny thing breaks up.
Yeah, that's why I said earlier, it's like, I feel like it's a Ferrari, like you put a little bit
of the wrong kind of fuel in it, and it just everything blows up.
Yeah, exactly. But if you step back to where that all comes from, I think there's something
really interesting. So I'm going to describe a scenario to you. Okay.
Imagine a person that believes in that there is a book that has truth in it. Okay, there's a
fundamental truth about the world. They don't have the time say a Bible.
Sorry, it feels like I'm describing. Yeah, they don't have the time to
deeply go into it. So they rely on an interpreter who is dedicated to interpreting
this text. Okay. Okay. And they spend time with the interpreter to like understand
like the takeaways from it, daily rituals, what to do, what not to do, what to care about,
what goals, et cetera. And it helps them, you know, live their life. And it also helps them
deal with like existential problems, like death or like life, just all the busy questions in life.
Yeah. And if I asked you what that sounds like, like you said,
sounds like the Bible, it sounds like religion. Is there anything else that you think that it
sounds like? You're going to say like next year's or something? I don't know.
Well, do you think there's anything in your life that fits this pattern?
Like does that sound familiar from like my worldview? Like I'm describing the scenario of a person
living like engaging with life in this way. I don't feel like I do, but do I? Tell me.
I think you you have. So when I describe this, everyone thinks, Oh, that's obviously religion.
There's another form of this that is one to one exactly the same. The internet or something?
It's like your relationship with Huberman is actually exactly this. Huberman. Oh, I didn't even
see this coming. I totally didn't see it. Listen, can I just say, do you even know that I don't listen
to the Huberman podcast? Did you know that? It's an example. Okay. It's a general example. So I,
yeah, of course, you engage with it to some degree. But you can imagine that there are people that
have this exact same relationship with them. Yeah. They believe in this concept called science.
They believe it has fundamental truth about the universe. They don't directly engage with it.
Because you know, who can as like a hobby, you rely on the interpreter,
interpreter you do rituals. Yeah, you live, you live your life. Well, it really is exactly the same.
And I shouldn't clap back with I don't listen to it because I do so many things that like come
out of his podcast. It's just I hear them from people. I don't like actually directly consume it
so much. Yeah. So I think everyone category, like when I describe this way, people, I think the
net reaction is, oh, it's not the same because it's like the root thing is science, right?
But it is the same. Yeah. It is eerily like the exact same as the other thing. And there's
actually a thing foundationally wrong with it. I think the only thing that's wrong with any of
the type of relationship is when you actually. So I think it's great when you understand that
you are engaging with these things because humans need like culture and rituals and like they can't
decide every little aspect of them of their life on their own. So they engage with they like choose
a vibe of something that provides this that they click with. And they're following it. The problem
comes when they actually literally believe that their choice is like the fundamentally the correct
one. And it like starts to like, you know, conflict with other people's other people's things. But
I think that the tricky thing with the science one is I don't think people actively chose it.
I think people what I think people believe is that actually is true. Like people literally believe
it as as strongly as like the most religious faith oriented person would believe in their thing.
So am I a Scientologist? No, that's a different thing.
But that that that that just has the word science in it. But to be honest, this isn't any different.
Like, so the thing for me is I obviously, I'm not saying scientists fake. I'm not one of those
people that are like, oh, it's, it's, you know, a scam. But I do differentiate between complex
domains and non complex domains. Ooh, say more, say more words. What does that mean? I'm just not,
I'm not following because I'm not smart. I think the great advances in science that we can think of
have been in the physical sciences, like, you know, like physics material. Yeah. So like, you know,
there's stuff we've just got about the universe formula is math that there's like a unified model.
It is for most of physics history, it's not as a complex domain. Like it's just individual
properties that apply whether you're looking at a single pebble or you're looking at a giant
planet. It's like the same. Yeah. It scales to the, like the rules scaled to both. But there's other
domains that are complex. Think about psychology, think about economics, think about biology.
These domains are domains where if you zoom into the micro, it's pretty simple. But then when you go
to the macro, it's like an impossible complex, like, like one cell versus a billion cells is like
infinite complexity, right? It's so hard to understand anything about it. And this is where
I think we, I think as a culture, we kind of assume that we like don't differentiate between
these two things. We kind of expect the truths of the physics world to also apply to complex
domains. Yeah. And that's why you can see everything from, again, it takes like psychology research.
None of it replicates, like at all, like the research is horrible, like it just does not.
Oh, what do you mean, like replicates? Like, oh, like the, the each study kind of stands alone.
No one ever finds like, no, no. So, so when I say replicate, I mean, someone will find,
discover a finding and then 10 years later, someone will redo the study and they'll be like,
oh, it like was wrong. Yeah. Yeah. Like they, like no one's reproduced the results of the study.
Yeah. Like each study is just kind of like an ad hoc thing that stands alone without.
Yeah, I gotcha. Okay. And we can kind of see this even in our lifetime. Like we live through a
lifetime where in biology, like fat was the most evil thing ever, that there's like a zone where,
you know, fat is like, oh, we found out it's actually not that bad. And it turns out it's like sugar,
you know, like it's, it's really, it's like the eggs thing where it's like eggs are good or eggs
are bad, just depending on the year. Okay. Yeah. There's a study that's for all too, like, you know,
period time where we obsessively focused on it. And now we're like, do we even understand what it
means? So the problem is it is a very complex domain. Just like all the topics that religion
talk about, it's very like crazy and like mind bending and weird. But people are set up to sell
it to you as oh, it's not. And I think you can accidentally like put your life into a pretty crazy
place because, again, this belief in, yep, you know, science and the truth and, you know, and all
that. So I think there is in the world right now, a really large trap that is pulling people into
that stuff. And it's not like 100% bad. But, you know, you can see how it's very easy to like get
sucked in infinitely more and more and more and more. So it's just the internet, like, is it
internet native problems, like being on the internet so much? Is that how we're getting sucked in?
Am I blaming a big bad boogeyman? Yes, in this case. But I think like I said,
this is like an ancient thing. Like people need rituals. People need rituals. People need to be
told how to underline need. Yeah, yeah, is there and it's built into humans. The problem is the
default in modern society. In this internet age, we all kind of get, we're seemingly getting pulled
into this similar state, this thing that's filling that void. Yeah, yeah, exactly. And I think people,
it's okay if that happens and you're aware of it. It's not okay if you act. I think a lot of people
believe that they don't need that, but they're still getting sucked into it and not realizing it,
right? And I need this too. Like I also do this, but I think my approach for it is I try to pick
like everyone kind of needs like a leader type person to look at and like model their life after.
I'm very particular about picking people that seem really happy, seem like they have the type
of kind of life that I would want. I feel like they value things that are correct. I do find
that a lot of people that are in this position, don't seem happy, seem really afraid if you really
look at how they live their day to day, but still are in this position where they're like leading
into millions of people. So you're saying the people, and I'm not picking on Huberman,
but the person in Huberman's position, like Huberman represents that the person you're talking about,
right? That seems like they don't seem like they actually model a life that you would want
necessarily. Yeah, this is all like gut feel. Like when I see Huberman, I like look at him and
like I can look at his face away talks and I just like, I don't sense happiness. I don't sense like
this is a fulfilled life. I sense like sense like weird desperation. I have the equivalent person,
by the way. So I have a guy named Mark Sisson. Same exact thing. He does exact same stuff with
Huberman. Huberman, he like has been a lot of time focusing on things like nutrition and exercise
and all of that. And he has the way he talks about it. But when I look at his life, I'm like,
this is like the happiest dude ever. He's got such a great life. I'm so jealous of him.
And everybody clicked with him is, and again, this comes out a personal choice, right? So he used
to be an ultra marathon runner, like crazy, crazy like distances like pushing himself to the extreme.
And he like almost killed himself doing that. Like he like destroyed his body in a lot of ways.
Yeah. So now he has this really interesting balance of like doing things in the optimal way,
but not forgetting that the point of life is to have fun and be happy and to enjoy it.
Like he always talks about, he's like always talks about exercise being like,
for him, you know, I don't go to the gym because I have fun going to the gym.
I go to the gym so I can go play ultimate on the weekends. And I can keep doing that
in my 60s, 70s, 80s. I can take 70 something now. So, you know, like that just clicks for me.
And I understand that I'm like kind of taking his word. He might be wrong about a bunch of things,
but I'm like treating him as a leader. Yeah. Not believing that there's truth involved,
but because I'm fulfilling this need that I have. So that fulfills your ritual need or like
the whole thing we described that everyone seems to have a need for that that guy is kind of your
like, he sets the rituals in place that you kind of follow. Like when I have questions,
like I need an answer, I think that's where I'll go. But again, it's like really mild for the
most part. Like I just like the way he views life and it clicks, it clicks for me, you know,
and he seems happy. So that seems like a good leader. Okay. I think I'm going to replace Huberman
in my life with Wim Hof. He's awesome. You know, Wim Hof is. Yeah, he's great. Yeah. Yeah.
And people are going to think it's just because of the cold exposure. Like I just like full baths,
but that's not it. He's just he just seems happy. He does he seems happy, right?
I don't know much about him. So the black seat, he seems happy.
Yeah, I don't know if he's offering answers to a lot of the things he doesn't seem to care about much.
He just like goes up in the mountains and is under where but that in itself is,
you know, something a detail. Yeah, that's true. Yeah. Hmm. Yeah, I need less. I need to have less
answers to questions, I think, in my mind. I think I have too many answers and it's stressful.
Yeah. So if you saw a tweet yesterday, like the more money you have, the more like
increasingly complex griffs you have to avoid. Yeah, I was trying to imagine what I saw that
tweet. I was trying to imagine what what you what spurred that what griff. I feel like so much in
my life. And I feel like I've gone through this phase where I was at a point where I had no money,
you know, earlier in my career, then I started making a good amount of money.
Then like all these solutions to all my problems started showing up, like, oh, you have this problem,
here's you have this problem, you're just solution. But like, it just, it technically solved that
problem. But then it created a new problem. And then there was a solution for that. And there just
felt like this cascading thing. And I got like hit a point where like, like just ejected out of it.
And I'm like, none of these problems are actually real problems. They're things that I would totally
forget about and not notice if someone wasn't in front of me being like, Hey, remember this thing
that you have a problem with? Yeah. And I just feel like, yeah, like the richer you get,
they're just more and more incentive for people to like, you're like, Oh, like you have this problem,
like, you know, yeah, by this thing, you know, and it's just so and I feel like so much of my life is
just dodging that now. It's just, it's so effective. Like when someone brings up something, you're like,
Oh, yeah, I should be paying attention to that. Or like, that is something I need to fix or that
is something I might as I've definitely felt that. And here's what the next day as punchline goes.
Yeah, next year is a great example of that. Yeah. Like we solved this problem. Uh oh,
here's a new problem. Okay, like we've met this new thing. And then okay, that fixes that. Okay,
no, but here's another literally had those problems this morning. I'm extremely stressed this morning.
And about 20% of it is next year's and it's so stupid. They're catching or weird caching thing.
Yeah, I've let this be a thing in my life that stresses me out, but whatever.
I was going to conclude anyway. So anyway, yeah, maybe we don't talk about any of this anymore,
my mental health or any of it. Because I just don't want this to become my therapy. And it is
kind of I'm sorry. Listen, I've tried therapy. I've tried the better help thing. This isn't your
therapy. This was just talking broadly. I don't think it was. Yeah, broadly. It wasn't too much
about you. I mean, my conclusion is like, I think for you, if you feel like your life is very brittle,
it doesn't have to be like you kind of doesn't have to be. It's not inherent to my personality.
Because I feel like I'm so like, like, I have this like weird hair to your personality.
But it's also that I'm saying the world is set up to tap into into that the world is set up to
tap into that. Okay. So the world is taking advantage of my personality. That's what you're
saying kind of. Yeah, I mean, it's not just you like it's like a problem. We're all like very lost
right now because we've given so much freedom to choose and we're like reinventing our lives
over and over. Do you feel lost? Yeah, I do because I'm also seeing all the same stuff you are and
I'm also thinking about all the same stuff where I'm like, should I be eating this? Should I be
doing that? Like, should I be doing this thing? People are saying I should be doing that. And it's just
like, it all sounds so smart. But below all of it, it's just like, just lost. Like, everyone is just
kind of like completely lost. That's a great, great way to describe it. And I feel I can hear
myself when I say like, yeah, lost is a good way that describes how I feel. I can just hear a lot of
like people yelling on the other end of the podcast with like their solution or like their beliefs
or their like, you're lost because you don't have this. And I get it. I've been there. I've held
belief systems where I felt that way about other people. Just like hear me out. Like, I've tried
things. I've done things. I've believed things. And I'm not unhappy with my broad worldview in terms
of like, it's the nitty, it's when you get down to the details. Yeah, yeah. It's the day to day
that like, I just constantly blame the internet. And it's stupid because the internet isn't really a
thing. I don't know. What am I blaming? Like, the physical network that is the internet? Like,
I'm blaming the information. I've not done a good job of putting constraints on how I consume
this thing that's available to us now where we have the world at our fingertips at all times.
I've not done a good job of shielding my brain from the wrong parts of it or something. And
that's what I blame. I don't it's not like I'm blaming big companies in the internet. I'm not like,
it's not a boogeyman thing. It's just like, I don't feel like I've done a good job of balancing
this very powerful thing that we have in our lives, this ability to communicate and consume
and do these things at any given moment. I haven't balanced that with like, stuff that we just need
as people. I feel like you just need people around you. You need to like, have like, socialization,
but I just basically shut off in terms of the physical world. Like, I literally just don't interact
with people within a hundred mile radius of me. I don't know. Like, I happen to live in a place,
but I don't really belong there. I don't really have the things that people probably need.
You know, we've talked about that before. But anyway,
me and Liz were talking about this too. Liz does something the other day. She was like,
I think the only thing I care about anymore is like being around people I care about.
And it's just become so-- I feel that in my soul.
Yeah, it just becomes so hard to do that. Like, it's like so rare that we get to actually do that.
So now it's just become like the number one thing we try to optimize our life around.
Like when I went to go visit Alan in Maine,
his family has been spending summers in that island in Maine like forever.
And I was like, we should just do that. Because at least literally we're like willing to like
go there and spend summers in there just so we can hang out with one person that we're close with,
like one group of people that we're close with. But for us, there's like nothing else that matters
more than that. It's crazy that like, yeah, all of us are so crazy isolated. And you're right.
It's like, this comes up in the most trivial things, right? It's like the micro nitty-gritty stuff.
Yeah, yeah. Like I think about our parents, like I'm our parents, like our grandparents.
They never once thought about like, what should I be eating? They never once thought about it.
Like, I think it's maybe different because in America, that was maybe a very bad thing.
But my grandparents were in India. They never once thought about what they should be eating.
And it was fine because it was all healthy, good food anyway. Like not a single day,
not a single minute of their life they spent thinking about that. And like,
that just leaves so much more room for thinking about other things. Like, they're not worried
about the nitty-gritty at all. It's been established. It's been that way for years and years and years.
Yeah. There's also like every other aspect of my life. Yeah, like activity, physical activity,
moving, like exercise, all that stuff. Do you think though, is to play the other side of it,
like you mentioned in America, maybe that would be a bad thing to not think about it.
Do you think there's something about our environment here? I'm going to say in the US
because I don't have any other context. Maybe it's the whole Western world. I don't know.
But do you think there's something about our environment that's sort of like actively hostile
against you just having a default lifestyle? Like, if you just live the life that society
sort of like seems to be defaulting to, like in India, your grandparents, they were surrounded
by a culture that was like setting good. Here's like a good food environment. Here's a good
whatever environment. And if you just live a default life here, you're going to be healthy and
happy. Do you feel like that's the case in the US today? Or do you feel like corporate interest or
something have created an environment where if you just default to the default, you're going to die
at like 80 and you're going to be on meds from like 55 and on for low blood pressure or whatever.
Like, there's all these things that are going to happen if you just default to the default here
in America. Do you think that's true? Or if I just Huberman myself into that?
No, I think that that no, that is true. But it has nothing to do with what I think it has to do
with is America is young and has no, it has no, it has no culture, like it has no ritual. It has
no like unified thing. Like, you know, again, going back to India example, this is like an
ancient civilization with rituals that have been around for thousands of years. There's a lot of
wisdom in those things. There's so many, I think we've taught those before. There's so many examples
of if you look at certain dishes that like pair a bunch of ingredients together and then like later
science will tell us like, Oh, this one ingredient is actually potentially, you know, has this thing
that can kill you. But when paired with this other ingredient, it like neutralize it, there's like,
nobody understands that when they're eating the food, but there's like this ancient
something over the years built up with it. Like most older cultures, if you look at their,
the food they eat, it tends to be right, nutritious covers a full spectrum of everything you need.
Again, nobody understood why they're doing any of that, but it's just built in. So I think America
is young. So it doesn't have have that's and the like we're exceptionally lost here, I think.
Yeah, so we're young, but we're also like a mix from a technology standpoint, we're very mature,
or like we've done things, we've been able to create things that like in India, 100 years ago,
they weren't going to be able to create some of the food and some of the things we've created in our
society. Do you think any of it's part of like the timeline we're in just like where we're at in
terms of technology? Because we can make very delicious tasting things that are not really food
anymore. And that's like a big part of the default diet in America. I'm getting on the food thing
a lot. Maybe this is just about food for me. Maybe I'm too hung up on food, but I do feel like the
default American diet is called like the standard American diet and it stands for sad or like sad
is the acronym. And I think there's something to that. Sad diet, it's just sad. Yeah, but I think
that's only that only proliferated because there isn't an existing thing that's like established,
right? So I see. So if America were older and we had like in a if we had come to the right answers
over a long period of time, which is what other cultures have done basically, like I'm sure every
part of the world is now dealing with this to some degree, just because of the globalization
stuff. But yeah, obviously, like you could like your grandparents or maybe your parents,
people your parents age were probably eating a lot of like really crazy stuff. People my parents
in age in India were not like it hadn't really made up there. And like it's much harder to
displace like their routines and everything. Like when you have a billion people all kind of doing
the same thing, it's that they've been doing for thousands of years. It's like a lot harder to
disrupt that. You can imagine like other countries to like just like imagine like Japan, like it's
like it's hard to imagine them doing kind of stuff that we're doing again because they have like these
rituals that they back. So yeah, it's hard for me. I think it's hard. I'm just I'm trying to compare
like India and America. And it's just hard for me because I don't think like a thousand years ago
at the early when they were young, when India was young, whenever that was, I don't think they were
like, let's start with McDonald's cheeseburgers. And then we're going to evolve to like,
Yeah, I think you're right that there's like the laws and also having the amount of freedom and
power that you do now. Right. That's like a bad combination. Yeah. Yeah. Like there's a period I
feel like in like, I don't know when this was maybe I think I think it was like after the 50s.
I feel there was a period that was like, let's try to make food as weird as possible. Yeah. I feel
like the post World War II, there was trying to make like the craziest stuff. There were like,
here's orange juice, but it's like a cube of ice. And here's like, here's jello. And there's like,
it's like this wobbly crazy thing. And there's like something in it. You know, it's just like all
this really weird era of being like, we can engineer anything and yeah, experimentation stuff came
out rebellion. Yeah, we're just young. We're teenagers. America is doing weird stuff. Okay,
that's enough about food. I feel like we should talk about something that anyone that listens
podcast would want to listen to because I've just I've taken over. And I think this is like,
probably I think what we talked about is probably, I think a lot of people could relate to what
we talked about. Yeah, I think this is like the problem of our time. So maybe this is like a
another problem of our time. And it's not unique to me that I feel like such a snowflake. Like,
there's so many things about my life that I think like, I just want to rant and I want to
complain about this stuff because I'm so frustrated. And I think like, no one can relate with me.
I don't I don't feel like I have relatable problems. But you know what I mean?
You are an extreme individual in a lot of ways that's in a very unique way. And that's what makes
you interesting. But I think the root things are stem from, I think people can relate to
are universal. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, if you're also lost, let's form a support group.
What's everyone? So I guess we just need it's everyone that is lost. And I think we all just
need to acknowledge that we're not smart. We're lost. Because a lot of this stuff sounds very
smart. And then what's the next step after that? So I've acknowledged I am done. I believe this
genuinely. I am not smart. And I am lost. Now I believe you all of it is true. What do I do now?
Find what you really care about? Like, what is what is the thing that you really care about?
What I really care about? I think it's what you and Liz just said. I think I do crave like ever
since React Miami, just like hanging out at your house for a week, realizing like, I just don't have
that in my life. I don't have like people that I just want to spend time with. And I had that
earlier in life. I feel like in school, you've got like this built in, you know, we spend a lot of
time together friends. Now it's just like my family and I love my family. And I know my family
needs this too. Like my wife would say the same thing. Like we just need people. We just need to
be around people more. And I feel like the isolation has gotten more extreme over. We've
been married 15 years. It wasn't like the beginning of our marriage. And I feel like it's just
progressively gotten worse. And I don't know what the driving factor is, but we got to fix it.
Yeah, exactly. And this again goes back to just these older ways of living. Like this was never
a problem historically. Like, you were you were never like, how do I stay and how do I make
sure I like stay in touch with my community? Like no, your community was your whole life.
And there was no escaping. Yeah, right, right. Which has other problems, right? So we've been
granted the ability to escape those problems, but we've lost all this stuff. So yeah, it's crazy how
and it's funny you bring up this school thing. Like this also goes back to
like these older structures. I think the school education system was so stupid and it was so
much of my life in it. And it sucks. And it was not optimized. And I think it set up a lot of it sets
up people for like a lot of misery. But it did provide the thing you're talking about where
you don't have to try at all. And you would have you have certain needs that are like just
met and fulfilled for like years, potentially even would even set you up for a lifetime with
like, you know, friends, stuff, but how in the world the like it's like it's decimated.
I post this other day. We have a friend whose wife has I literally haven't seen her in like
five years. Like she's always avoids hanging out with us. And my last memory of hanging out with her
was we were at this Vietnamese place getting and I talked about how more it was like a really
great character. I've heard this. Yeah, I would do a horcrux. And you got really pissed. You got
really, really, really, really I think that was like, she like was like, Oh, Dax is a bad person.
Like that was her like definitive. You know, I said something that definitely told I was a bad
person and she should avoid me. So yeah, that was it. Bold. Well, it's not true or not. It's a
sorghum. I'm gonna say, but it's funny. People on the table next to us also found it funny and
started getting into it with us too. Could we talk about fur? Is that how you say it?
Oh, he said faux, I think. It's fur, huh? Yeah, I have this thing where I apply very
inconsistently. There are certain things that I feel like if you pronounce it a certain way,
even if it's correct or being pretentious. So I say it the wrong way on purpose. But I'm just
thinking sometimes I just do it. Like, I think with fun, I feel like I hear enough people saying
that where I'm not like showing off that I know how to say it by saying a certain way.
Okay, I just looked it up. I mean, it is spelled P-H-O, but we'll go with fun. I'm good with that.
But it is. I love. Speaking of what's going on right now, I need to like distract myself. Do
I? Maybe I don't. Maybe I need to think about my problem. I think I want to distract.
Let's just go on right now. Oh, this episode sponsored by Terminal Coffee. You can buy your
coffee in the terminal right now. S-S-H terminal bot shop. Literally right now, you can do it,
because we launched- Open up your terminal bot shop. S-H terminal bot shop.
Did you see the multiplexer thing I posted? Yes. Oh, I can't wait. I'm so tired of having
multiple panes open to do this stuff. I just want to like cycle through it.
It solves a bunch of problems too. Like, it's not like I have to kill them all the restart.
Like, it's going to be nice. How soon? How soon are we talking here?
I'm hoping I've had a set the next day or so. Oh, nice. I'm close.
Everything moves fast with SST. It was fun, because the way I built it was,
I actually didn't build anything S-C specific for the multiplexer. I built like a very simple
multiplexer that can show up multiple processes, and I'm like using it for SST.
Isn't it crazy how deep into the terminal we've got? Yeah, we've really got deep.
We're in deep because I finally understand all this stuff that I never really got.
Like, I never really got like, how is SST working? Like, it's like streaming to me. Is it like a
video feed? Yeah, there's things I care about now that I just never ever thought about.
Like, there's like, yeah, how much data is being transferred over an SST session.
Not a thing I cared about a year ago. Now, suddenly, I'm very concerned with the internals of these
libraries we use and how it all works. And I'm amazed at how capable the whole terminal
system is. Like, it really is. Yeah. Again, it's obvious if you think about the fact that we're
using the OVIM and the OVIM is a terminal app, but yeah, it can work locally, it can be streamed
over as stage, all that stuff. But it is wild, because the stuff, this technology is old,
the concept of terminal is extremely old. All those escape codes are very old, but yeah, you can
use it to do anything, and it's a it's wildy, but that's the same terminal that shot.
Yeah, we we haven't talked about since we launched, right? We haven't had an episode since it was
Monday, we launched with four new blends. And I think we've officially sold more than we have
in our first round. Feels good. We don't sell the rent the coffee that we sold in the first round,
no blend. It was a limited time run. Now you can buy four different blends that whatever
matches your preference. We've got a light medium roast. Yeah, and a decaf. A decaf,
which is really popular. Surprisingly, it's a less popular for sure, but like there's a good
map. It's surprisingly more popular than I expected. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's all the people who want
to buy our coffee through the terminal, but they don't drink coffee and they're like,
I can do decaf maybe. I think the 404 is a decaf button. I think that one has the best packaging.
That's my favorite. It's the coolest package. Yeah. If you were just buying them for the packaging,
it's the coolest for sure. We really get photos of the coffee packaging. Yeah, we do.
On the website or something because they're not in the terminal. So you never see what you're
about to get. It's like, I figured that, well, we should post photos for sure. I figured we could
do that like a week out. So we can, yeah, we'll take some photos here. I should be getting the
coffee soon, right? But also people are about to be gets people. Some people are getting their
coffee today. So I'm sure there'll be tweets and stuff so we can retweet those. So people,
people would, yeah, you're just reminding me, I got stuff to do. I got, see, this is the problem.
Like, I'm like, oh, I'm going to go to jujitsu at 10. And then I'm like, no, I got so many
things I got to do today. Why do I always feel like I have so many things to do? There's always
going to be so many things to do with work. It's never going to be like, oh, I really don't have
that much to do right now. It's always going to be there's so much to do. Why is that? Is that how
everyone feels of the work is this universal? Because you are, you're like running a business.
Yeah, so how it feels when you run a business, when you're running three businesses, this is
how you feel. Yeah, exactly. Because it's like, the thing I always bring up is being a freelancer
and going on vacation. And whatever vacation costs twice and out. Yeah, it's like, that exact thing.
It's like, it's not like you're done with work. There's always more stuff you could be doing.
And you're getting paid for every minute you work, which is not the case when
you know, you have a fixed salary. Yeah. Yeah, it's like yesterday is a holiday. And it's like,
I'm not taking off on 4th of July. It's not like, ah, my day job is giving me the day off.
So I'm just going to hang out and barbecue. Like what? No, I don't get to do that. There's always
so many things to do that every moment seems precious. I don't like that feeling though. I don't
like that feeling of it's just, it's this never ending treadmill that I will never get off of.
That's what it feels like. Well, it's funny because holidays are exciting for me because
external things coming into my life slow down. Yeah. Like support questions or people ask me
stuff. So holidays are days where I can like really focus. Sorry. I don't stop.
The stream of my support request keeps flowing. Yeah, so that is super nice.
But yeah, I don't know. It just, I'm sure eventually something out or maybe not. Yeah,
eventually it'll slow down. Sure. Yeah. Uh huh. That's what, yeah. No, it won't.
My one of the, yeah, I imagine the beginning of the podcast. Uh, I, Warren Buffett,
he's 90 something years old and he's so, I bring his up so much. He's so articulate. He's so
all there, especially, you know, we've been seeing Biden in the past week. He's like,
his mind's a hundred percent there. And guess what? He worked probably every minute of his life.
Okay. I like that. I work a lot. I choose to believe that, again, none of this is based on
factor science or anything, but yeah, it makes sense to me that he's, that makes sense. I mean,
my grandpa lived to be 94 eight terribly. I mean, like he was completely unhealthy and every metric
like had to have his arteries from his neck scraped clean and all that like just didn't do a lot of
things lifestyle wise you would think would keep him tick until 94. But perfectly there till he
died mentally and he was working until he was 94. He had a clothing store. He ran for 60 years or
whatever and went to work every day thinking about how you can make these jeans a little cheaper for
people about like that kind of stuff. I mean, like, I do think there's something about having
your work and having this like mental exercise every day. I think that's good. Yeah. I just,
but like when I talk about this with Casey and how stressed I am and how overwhelmed all these
things there's so much going on. It's like, well, you got to cut something out is for your answer.
And it's like, I don't, there's nothing I would cut out. I love all the things I'm doing. Like,
it's all good things. I want all these things. I've narrowed it to four things and I just,
why can't I just feel good about the pace? I think it's the pace. Why can't I just feel good
about the pace that like just naturally happens? Why do I feel like everything's going too slow
and I got to go faster? Okay. So I have a perfect metaphor for this. And I think
I'm going to be able to explain two things at once. So you know how when there's like a road
and there's a lot of traffic and there's always like always uncomfortable amount of traffic. It's
like annoying. They expand the road and then it's like the same amount of traffic even though there's
twice amount of amount of room. Yeah. And the reason is like every individual is willing to drive up
to a certain level of discomfort. So that's just a level that it's always going to be at. If you
add more capacity, the discomfort goes down. So then more people start driving and then discomfort
goes back up. The natural state of everything is just going to be discomfort. Because if you cut
something out, then you're going to be like, huh, I feel good now. And then you're going to feel like
I can probably do another thing and you feel it with something else. And again, you're at the zone
of discomfort forever. Yeah, I describe it as a liquid. It's like it fills the container. It's
not a gas. Like it will fill the container. It's probably more like a gas because it can be compressed
or something. And like it ultimately, maybe it can't. I don't know. But it fills whatever crevice I
give it. If there is an opening, I will fill it with something to do and it's overwhelming.
Okay. Yeah. The thing that I mean, let's talk about this a lot because it feels like every time
our life gets settled, we seem to completely randomly make a decision that just inserts chaos
into it again. It's like, we were going to move from New York to Miami, chaos, chaos, chaos. Okay,
it's kind of settling down. Okay, let's get a dog. Chaos, chaos, chaos. Okay. The dog is like
kind of grown up and like, you know, he's, he's like chill now because yet another dog. Really,
let's kind of kid, you know, it's just like, we're always just resetting. We're going to move again.
Yeah. It's there's always something. There is, before we load up, there is one tech thing that
happened this week. That is interesting. Have you seen all this stuff with RS pack? No.
Have you ever heard of RS pack? Is that a rust thing? What is it? RS pack.
Okay. So do you remember how? Wait, can I guess? Hang on? Hang on. This is going to be fun. I'm
going to guess somebody rewrote a bundler in rust. I've never heard of RS pack in my life, but I just
know that's what it is. Okay. Great. So a couple of years ago, I remember so at their conference
was like, introducing turbo pack, the successor. Oh, yeah. And then the webpack people were like,
what? Wait, what do you mean? Not people that were diverse. I was just like the people that
well, the guy, yeah, the people who actually worked on webpack. Yeah, we're so working on
Webpack. We're still working on Webpack. And that like annoyed people enough that they kicked off
RS pack, which is just targeting the existing webpack config and API. I just need money.
That's where they went wrong. So I continue. No, no, wait, just listen, ground up in rust.
And it's okay. A lot of these engineers work at bite dance, which is a company that owns TikTok.
Oh, and you often hear from them. They are like, they're insane. These are like some of the craziest
engineers I've seen. They shipped RS pack with 100% working with Webpack faster than turbo pack,
even replaced next to us. And they started pretty sure. And they move super, super, super fast.
So we're gonna say it's like hit a milestone where like you can totally replace Webpack. It's
faster than V. It's faster than like, you know, it's great across the board is winning.
Last week, Zach Johnson, who is someone that works on it works at bite dance said, Oh, one of my
coworkers is like, gonna get RS pack building next to us just for fun and getting a lot of test
pass. And we're planning on throwing it out. Oh, this is hilarious. Sounds useful. So I've
messaged him being like, like, what is this? This sounds like really useful for open next. Like,
can we talk about it? And he goes, Oh, it's funny. My coworker was like, can I can we donate this
to open next? And then so we got in a call and I was talking to him. And they like take this stuff
so seriously, they are like, if the way bite dance treats things is, if there is a large user of an
open source project, they treat like a business product. So they will literally like fly someone
to you and work with you having issues with it. Like they're just like, just on it and like,
just crazy engineering power and resources and stuff. So they're literally going to build an
alternate compiler for next year's that targets, like your code, like the next year's APIs,
but doesn't depend on like the versatile build output, which like is constantly changing and
breaking it and all this stuff. So you can maybe say it's like a successor to turbo pack.
Yeah, the senator is going to launch yet as a successor.
But what's cool about this is that completely decouples next. It's like the biggest way to
decouple it next from Vercelle because you just target the same API. Sure. They sell design.
But a lot of places where they like really mess with stuff is in the build process where they like
make certain things like overly complicated as a side effect of making it like work nicely with
certain products that Vercelle offers. So an example of that is Vercelle has a cash like a
proprietary caching product. But if you just made an x-ray as work with module federation,
which is like an open thing, like you wouldn't really need that, but they make it network with it.
So things like that, it would just fix. Yeah. So yeah, it is wild that now there might be this.
We might be getting this like crazy set of resources to help with open next.
Cloudflare also coincidentally has been talking about doing the exact same thing.
So they're also very potentially into this. So it finally feels like interesting.
We can kind of band everywhere together and have this like
completely separate alternate solution. Yeah. A way of doing of doing next,
which I'm pretty excited. A lot of potential pretty excited about.
Okay. These engineers are insane. They're like so fast. I love these kind of stories.
I love learning about these. I do feel like we haven't even scratched the service on what
people are capable of from a software development standpoint. I feel like we're just discovering
like there's these people who are insane. I mean, I've just seen it in the open source community,
and especially people you found like, Oh, look at this library that this random 15 year old
Nindia made. And like, Oh, this person's a genius. Yeah. And I feel like there's just more and more
of that. And then you start like putting them on little teams together and just like,
there's no telling what we're going to be able to build. It's amazing. Yeah. He was the guy
was really like, I'm pretty sure I can get all pages router working in a weekend.
Like, Oh, cool. That's funny. That sounds great. All right. We got to get up here so I can go
to Jutsu. I, uh, I'm realizing I need to, I need to do some physical exertion. I'm sorry that I
just truncated the only interesting part of this podcast. You guys had to listen to like 40 minutes
of existential crisis. And then you get like a little blip of Dax talking about tech that's
actually interesting, such as life on the tomorrow. People don't care about the tech part. I'm very
don't care. Maybe not. We just need to position the podcast appropriately. I guess it's not really
branded as being a tech podcast. So I don't know why I feel like I have some obligations branded
about as being tomorrow. Yeah, it's about tomorrow. It's very broad. It is very broad. We can basically
talk about anything we want. It's about how the future requires us visiting our past. Oh, that was
deep. Did you just make that up on the spot? I'm going to change our tagline and those scripts
with the podcast and everything. That was so good. You're going to be the person I put in that place.
I need that that wise person in my life that's not Huberman. It's going to be Dax for me. No,
it's got to be someone in the next phase of life. No, I'm going with you. You're a little younger
than me, but I don't care. There's no rules. There's no rules here. All right. Oh, one hour
exactly. Let's just stop it now. Okay. Bye.
Oh, no, I didn't hit the button. I can't reach it. There it is. Okay. My trackpad died.